Authentication
**************

.. contents::

API keys
========

Default and custom API keys
---------------------------

API keys are the primary entities of EVA ICS authentication and access control
checking.

After the installation, the following API keys are created automatically:

* **masterkey** primary (super) key with an unlimited access to any resource.
  One master key always should be present in the controller configuration.

* **default** default key for controller inter-connections. Has an access to
  all :doc:`items<items>`, no access to system and master functions and has
  *allow=cmd,[device]*

* **operator** default user key. Similar to the default key, but with
  *allow=lock*

Custom API keys can be created either in the controller key configuration
(*etc/<controller>_apikeys.ini*, static, requires controller restart on
changes), with :doc:`/sysapi` key management functions or with
:doc:`command-line interface </cli>` (dynamic, stored either in "db" or in
"userdb"). Master keys can be created only in the controller key configuration
file, the default master key (with id *masterkey*) can also be changed for all
installed components at once, using *eva masterkey* CLI command.

.. note::

    Each EVA ICS component has own key set, even if all components are running
    under the same installation. Sharing API keys configurations and/or
    database is not recommended.
    
    All API keys are loaded and cached during the controller startup, to speed
    up API responses.

API key properties and ACL
--------------------------

The current ACL can be obtained with "test" API/CLI command. Key properties can
be modified with :doc:`/sysapi` key management functions or with
:doc:`command-line interface </cli>`. "Static" keys, defined in the key
configuration files, can not be re-configured dynamically.

API key properties:

* **allow** key allow list:

    * **cmd** access to remote command call service functions
    * **lock** access to lock management functions
    * **device** (for :doc:`/uc/uc` only) access to device templates functions

* **cdata** custom data. Can be set to any custom value (up to 16384
  characters), appears in serialized ACL as-is.

* **dynamic** read-only value, specifying is the key "dynamic" (True, stored in
  the db) or "static" (False, defined in the key config file)

* **groups** comma-separated item groups the key has an access to (despite of
  item types). MQTT-style wildcards ('#', '+') are allowed (e.g. "#" = access
  to the all items).

* **groups_ro** same as *groups* but for the read-only access.

* **hosts_allow** comma-separated list of hosts/networks the key has the access
  from.

* **hosts_assign** comma-separated list of hosts/networks to automatically set
  the key for any non-authenticated API requests

* **id** key ID, unique

* **items**, **items_ro** same as groups, but grant an access to the specified
  items. Wildcards aren't possible.

* **key** key itself (up to 64 characters). Filled with 32 random chars
  automatically after creation

* **master** key is the master key if set to True

* **pvt**, **rpvt** comma-separated lists for :doc:`SFA PVT/RPVT
  </sfa/sfa_pvt>` ACLs.

Users
=====

Unlike the typical approach, when a user is the primary authentication entity
and can have one or multiple API keys, EVA ICS authentication works in the
opposite way: API keys are the primary entities and there could be one or more
users linked to the each one. Consider, for the users, API keys act as ACL
groups.

The approach may look strange, but there's a strong reason to work in this way:
all external resources (EVA ICS controller inter-connections, 3rd party apps)
should always use API keys only, while user accounts are generally used only
for authentication via web-interfaces. Majority EVA ICS installations have no
user accounts at all, while all setups require API keys for control and
management.

When such approach is used, there's also no reason to have "service" user
accounts for the service functions.

Users can be created with :doc:`/sysapi` user management functions or with
:doc:`command-line interface </cli>`.

API calls can not be performed with user accounts directly, the users must
login and obtain :doc:`api_tokens`.

.. _combined_acl:

Combined ACLs
=============

As API keys are used as user ACLs, a user can have more than one API keys
assigned locally or with :doc:`Active Directory<msad>` groups.

If more than one key (so more than one ACL) is assigned:

* item ACLs and allow/assign hosts/networks are merged as-is
  
* special ACLs are merged with higher access level (e.g. if one of keys has
  master access, the combined ACL will have master access as well)

* **cdata** field becomes a list which contains "cdata" fields of all keys
  combined.

* **key id** has the value "comb:KEY_1+KEY_2+...KEY_N"

* the key gets an additional field **combined_from** which contains a list of
  key ids the ACLs are combined from.

Only authenticated users can have combined access. Combined API keys are
generated for internal purposes only and there is no way to obtain them for
direct API requests (use users' session tokens instead).
