Data pullers
************

Data pullers are external programs, used to pull state from the equipment as
fast as possible. Data pullers are usually used in :doc:`high-load
environments<highload>`.

Configuration
=============

Data pullers are defined in :doc:`/uc/uc` configuration, section
*[datapullers]* as *<name> = <cmd>*, where:

* **name** data puller name (unique)
* **cmd** data puller startup command

e.g.

.. code:: ini

    [datapullers]
    dp1 = /opt/dp1/datapuller -c /opt/dp1/config.yml
    dp2 = /opt/dp2/datapuller -c /etc/dp2.ini
    dp3 = datapuller3

Execution
=========

All data pullers are started automatically at :doc:`/uc/uc` start. Data pullers
can be stopped or restarted later using :doc:`UC API functions
</uc/uc_api>` or :doc:`CLI<cli>` (*eva uc datapuller*).

:doc:`/uc/uc` always tries to kill data puller and its child subprocesses on
stop / shutdown. However to avoid critical situations, data puller SHOULD exit
manually, if STDOUT / STDERR are not available any longer (standard programs do
that by default).

Data exchange
=============

Basics
------

Data puller is a program, or a shell script, written in any language, which
repeatedly pulls the equipment, collects and processes data and then sends it
to stdout. Data pulling should be done in an infinite loop. Start / stop
operations are handled by :doc:`/uc/uc`.

When stop (SIGTERM signal) is received, data puller has 1 second to shut down
itself gracefully, otherwise it (and its child processes) will be forcibly
killed.

If data puller process exits or crashes, it will be automatically restarted.
The automatic restart is performed with 1-second delay.

The idea of data pullers is developing small programs in low-level programming
languages to let EVA ICS receive only modified data. Data pullers are good for
Ethernet/IP and Modbus slave equipment, as well as for SNMP-enabled equipment
without a support of SNMP traps or any other equipment, which is unable to send
any state events.

Health check
------------

If there are no events, data puller SHOULD send *.ping* or empty string to
STDOUT, otherwise it will be considered as dead after period equal to a default
controller timeout and automatically restarted:

.. code::

    .ping

Data output
-----------

Data puller should collect data and output to STDOUT update commands in format,
equal to :doc:`/uc/uc_udp_api`:

.. code::

    <item_id> u <status> <value>
    # e.g.
    sensor:tests/test1 u 1 777.555

If status or value need to be skipped, they should be set to "None":

.. code::

    sensor:tests/test1 u None 777.555

Data pullers SHOULD:

* collect and output all available data on startup

* during the execution, send to :doc:`/uc/uc` only modified data

* manually handle logic mapping, e.g. converting Modbus registers or
  Ethernet/IP tags to EVA ICS :doc:`items<items>` states.

Logging
-------

Data puller can send messages to :doc:`/uc/uc` logs. If stdout line starts with
*.log*, it's considered to be the log command:

.. code::

    .log <level> <message>
    # e.g.
    .log warning Some warning information

Where level is the level of the message (debug, info, warning, error or
critical, first letter is enough e.g. *w* for warning).

Data puller can also print messages to STDERR, they will be automatically
logged with *error* level.

Environment variables
---------------------

All :ref:`cvars<uc_cvars>` and other EVA ICS core variables are available in
the datapuller process system environment.

Pulr
====

`Pulr <https://github.com/alttch/pulr>`_ is a free data pulling tool, 100%
compatible with EVA ICS. Refer to Pulr documentation about the tool
configuration, here are few remarks how to use it:

* In Pulr configuration, set *output: eva/datapuller* to output data in EVA ICS
  native format.

* Set *beacon* value less than :doc:`/uc/uc` default timeout, otherwise the
  Pulr subprocesses will be killed and continuously restarted.

* All fields in *process* sections must have *set-id* param, to convert pulled
  data IDs into EVA ICS item IDs (*<unit|sensor>:<group>/<id>*)

* *set-id* must end with either *.status* or *.value* to set the proper
  :doc:`EVA ICS items<items>` state fields. If no ending is specified, item
  state value is updated.

Pulr supports SNMP (v2), Modbus (TCP/UDP) and Ethernet/IP (Allen-Bradley
compatible) field buses.
