doc/iac.rst, before:

IaC and deployment
******************

EVA ICS supports infrastructure-as-code paradigm, providing a way to deploy
items and their params from deployment files in YAML format.

Live deployment examples can be found in EVA ICS demos:

* https://github.com/alttch/eva-demo-smarthome
* https://github.com/alttch/eva-demo-farm

Deployment is possible only on :doc:`SFA</sfa/sfa>` servers.

.. note::

    To allow deployment, SFA must have child controllers connected in
    management mode (connected controllers master keys should be set). Also,
    :ref:`cloud manager <install_cloud>` feature should be enabled in SFA
    configuration file.

.. contents::

Deployment configuration file
=============================

Deployment configurations are stored in YAML files, which have the following
format:

Controllers
-----------

Section *controller* contains:

* :doc:`Driver</drivers>` setup for :doc:`/uc/uc`
* Commands, executed after configuration deployment

Common variables setup
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Here's an example to set two cvar values:

.. code:: yaml

    controller:
        uc/controller1:
            cvar:
                var1: value1
                var2: value2

Driver setup
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Here is an example, which:

* Loads two PHI *vrtrelay* modules into :doc:`/uc/uc` *uc/controller1* as *vr1*
  and *vr2*. The second module has configuration option *state_full=true*.
* Creates *vr1.opener* driver using *vr1* PHI module and *multistep* LPI.

.. code:: yaml

    controller:
        uc/controller1:
            phi:
                vr1:
                    module: vrtrelay
                    # src: path/to/module
                vr2:
                    module: vrtrelay
                    config:
                        state_full: true
            driver:
                vr1.opener:
                    module: multistep
                    config:
                        bose: true

"src" field tells deployment function to get PHI module from file or URL and
upload it to the target controller.

API keys and local users
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Keys can contain any valid key properties, local user accounts MUST have both
"password" and "key" properties set.

.. code:: yaml

    controller:
      uc/controller1:
        key:
          tkey1:
            key: verysecret1
            groups:
              - plant1/#
              - plant2/#
            sysfunc: true
            allow:
              - lock
              - cmd
          tkey2:
            key: verysecret2
            groups: "#"
            allow:
              - device
        user:
          test1:
            password: "iu4i32j432s"
            key: tkey1
          test2:
            password: "u89132u2183"
            key:
              - tkey1
              - tkey2

Uploading files
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Local files can be uploaded into remote controller runtime directory:

.. code:: yaml

    controller:
        uc/controller1:
            upload-runtime:
                - localfile:remotefile
                - localfile2:path/to/remotefile2

File list: local/remote files, separated with ":". If remote directory doesn't
exist, it will be created automatically.

It's possible to use masks for local files, e.g. in the example below, contents
of "bundle" directory will be uploaded to remote node "runtime/upload",
directory structure will be duplicated as-is.

.. code:: yaml

    controller:
        uc/controller1:
            upload-runtime:
                - bundle/*:upload/

.. note::

    To upload directory contents recursively, set file mask to \*\*

It's possible to keep content in the deployment file as well. In this case, use
"file_put" API function to create the remote file:

.. code:: yaml

    controller:
      uc/controller1:
        before-deploy:
          - api: file_put
            i: upload/test.yml
            m: |
              test: true
              test2: false
              tags:
                - valid: true
                  x: 2
                - valid: true
                  x: 3

File paths:

* if the file path starts with *http:* or *https:*, it's processed as URI
* if the file path starts with "/", it's considered as absolute
* if the file path starts with "./" it's relative to the current
  directory
* otherwise, the file path is relative to the directory where the deployment
  file is located

Before/After deploy
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Remote calls
^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. note::

    EVA ICS architecture does not allow Cloud Manager to execute API calls on
    remote SFAs. Use the remote node UC or LM instance to act as the agent for
    that.

Controller API calls may be automatically executed after deployment is
complete:

.. code:: yaml

    controller:
        lm/lm1:
            before-deploy:
                - api: reset
                  i: timers/timer1
            after-deploy:
                - { api: clear, i: timers/timer1 }
                - { api: reload_controller, i: uc/uc1 }
                - { api: reload_controller, i: uc/uc2 }
                - api: custom_fn
                  _pass: true
                  param1: 123
                  param2: "x"

API calls are always executed in the specified order, one-by-one, *api:* field
contains API function to execute, others specify function parameters. The
special parameter *_pass* in the last call allows deployment to ignore failed
API call (warning will be printed).

Custom API call timeout can be defined with special parameter *_timeout*.

.. note::

    It is usually recommended to call *reload_controller* for :doc:`/lm/lm` to
    let it instantly load newly deployed items from connected UCs for EVA ICS prior to 3.3.2.

    Starting from 3.3.2, if units or sensors were deployed, all LM PLCs, listed
    in "controller" section, are reloaded automatically. If a LM PLC has no
    deployment configuration, it should be listed as an empty dict:

    .. code:: yaml

        controller:
          lm/lm1: {}

Local calls
^^^^^^^^^^^

Sometimes it's useful to call local SFA function deployment process. This can
be done with directive "cm-api" which has the same format as "api" for remote
calls:

.. code:: yaml

    controller:
        lm/lm1:
            before-deploy:
                - api: reset
                  i: timers/timer1
                # just for a test
                - cm-api: reload_controller
                  i: lm/lm1

The local calls can be also merged into "local" controller section. The section
can contain any before/after deploy commands, which are executed on local SFA:

.. code:: yaml

    controller:
      local:
        after-deploy:
          - install-pkg: test.evapkg
            o: { x: 2 }
            w: 5

The "local" section is always executed after all other controllers' sections.

Additionally, local SFA resources, allowed to be deployed:

* API keys
* user accounts

.. _iac_pkg:

Installing packages
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A :doc:`package</packages>` can be installed during any deployment stage.

Syntax:

.. code:: yaml

    controller:
      uc/uc1:
        after-deploy:
          - install-pkg: /path/to/package.evapkg
            o: { x: 2 }
            w: 5


Additional deploy functions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

sleep
^^^^^

Delays execution of next before/after deploy commands. E.g. let's reload remote
UC and wait 5 seconds until its core is restarted:

.. code:: yaml

    controller:
      uc/uc1:
        after-deploy:
          - api: shutdown_core
          - function: sleep
            args: [ 5 ]

system
^^^^^^

Executes (local) system command:

.. code:: yaml

    controller:
      uc/uc1:
        after-deploy:
          - function: system
            args: [ 'ls' ]

Loops, conditions and variables
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Deployment files are pre-processed as `Jinja2
<https://jinja.palletsprojects.com/>`_ templates and may contain any valid
Jinja2 tags and variables.

The pre-set variable "time_ns" contains current UNIX timestamp (in
nanoseconds), which can be used e.g. as "no-cache" value for bypassing cache of
proxied external resources.

It's also possible to import any external Python module with "import_module"
function:

.. code:: jinja

    {%- set io=import_module('io') %}
    {%- set units=io.open('units.list').readlines() %}
    unit:
      {%- for u in units %}
      {{ u.strip() }}:
        controller: uc/uc1
      {%- endfor %}

Items
-----

:doc:`/items` can be deployed with *unit*, *sensor* and *lvar* sections. All
sections are similar, the format is:

.. code:: yaml

    unit:
        group1/u1:
            controller: uc/uc1
            action_enabled: true
            update_interval: 0
            status: 0 # initial status, optional
            driver:
                id: vr1.default
                config:
                    port: 1

All child fields specify item properties, except:

* Field *controller* specifies controller, where item should be deployed
* For units and sensors, *driver* field may be used to assign driver to the
  item.

.. note::

    It is not necessary to list the target controller in "controller" section,
    unless it needs to be additionally configured (e.g. load
    drivers/PHIs)

If *action_exec* or *update_exec* values are started with *^* symbol, it tells
deployment tool to upload local file on the controller.

Setting "status" field to "update" asks the controller to trigger item update
after deployment:

.. code:: yaml

    unit:
        group1/u1:
            controller: uc/uc1
            # ....
            status: update

The second example shows how to deploy a sensor and logical variable:

.. code:: yaml

    sensor:
        group1/s1:
            controller: uc/uc1
            driver:
                id: somedriver.default
                config:
                    port: 1
            value: 77 # initial value, optional, initial status for sensor
                      # is not required (automatically set to 1 - enabled)

    lvar:
        group1/timer1:
            controller: lm/lm1
            expires: 30
            status: 0 # initial status, optional
            value: 77 # initial value, optional

Macros
------

:doc:`/lm/macros` are deployed in *lmacro* section:

.. code:: yaml

    lmacro:
        group1/macro1:
            controller: lm/lm1
            action_exec: ^macro1.py

All child fields specify item properties, except:

* Field *controller* specifies :doc:`/lm/lm`, where macro should be deployed

If field *action_exec* value is started with *^* symbol, it tells deployment
tool to upload local file on the controller.

.. note::

    To make deployment process more easy, it is recommended to start it in
    directory, where macro files are located.

Logical rules
-------------

:doc:`/lm/decision_matrix` can be configured with *dmatrix_rule* section.

Rule example:

.. code:: yaml

    dmatrix-rule:
      5ef9b8fd-d527-44ce-ae89-9629afd40d76:
          controller: lm/farm-scada
          description: light normal
          enabled: true
          oid: "sensor:#/ldr.value"
          condition: x = 1
          break_after_exec: true
          macro: stop_lamp
          macro_kwargs:
            lamp_id: 1

All child fields specify item properties, except:

* Field *controller* specifies :doc:`/lm/lm`, where rule should be configured

Rule UUID should be pre-generated with any UUID generator, e.g. with *uuidgen*
Linux console command.

Scheduled jobs
--------------

Jobs can be deployed the similar way as rules:

.. code:: yaml

    job:
      e407f61c-a251-455b-92bc-9eee9adcb93b:
        controller: lm/lab-ws2
        description: "scheduled job 1"
        enabled: true
        macro: do_scheduled_task
        macro_args: [ 'task1' ]
        every: "wednesday at 12:00"

Cycles
------

.. code:: yaml

    lcycle:
      test:
        controller: lm/lab-ws2
        description: "scheduled job 1"
        interval: 1
        macro: do_cycle1
        macro_args: [ 'task1' ]

How to deploy configuration
===========================

Currently there is no API functions for deploy EVA ICS configuration. The item
configuration can be deployed either via :doc:`CLI</cli>` or during
installation.

Deployment via CLI
------------------

Deploying
~~~~~~~~~

Deployment configuration can be applied using  *eva sfa cloud deploy* command.
When deployed with :doc:`CLI</cli>`, deployment file may contain variables.

Example:

.. code:: yaml

    unit:
        light/room1:
            controller: uc/{{ srv }}

Here is *srv* variable defined. To set its value, e.g. to "uc1", use *-c
srv=uc1* command line argument. If multiple variable values are set, they
should be comma separated, e.g.: *-c srv1=uc1,srv2=uc2* etc.

There's also command line argument *-u* which tells CLI to try undeploying
target configuration before doing deployment of it. Undeployment process
ignores missing items and deletes only existing.

Undeploying
~~~~~~~~~~~

Deployment configuration can be removed with *eva sfa cloud undeploy* command.
Custom variable values can be set in the same way as during deployment.

Deployment during installation
------------------------------

Configuration also can be deployed with *easy-setup* during
:doc:`SFA</sfa/sfa>` :doc:`installation</install>`. Use *--deploy FILE* command
line argument to specify path to the deployment file.

Complex deployments
-------------------

Bare-metal
~~~~~~~~~~

Sometimes deployment is more complex than just creating items. In this case
deployment scripts are used to prepare environment, call *eva sfa cloud deploy*
command and finish deployment.

Containers
~~~~~~~~~~

There is no problems when the regular bare-metal or virtual machine
installation is performed, but if EVA ICS is being installed into Docker
machine or Kubernetes cluster, there is a special environment variable
*after_install*, which tells `EVA ICS Docker
image <https://hub.docker.com/r/altertech/eva-ics>`_ to execute deployment
script after installation process is finished. Here's an example part of
docker-compose file:

.. code:: yaml

    eva-scada:
        environment:
            - after_install=/deploy/deploy.sh

Devices
-------

Starting from EVA ICS 3.3.2, :ref:`device<device>` template format is equal to
IaC files.

For cvar deployment, a proper "controller" property should be present in the
device template. In "unit" and "sensor" sections, "controller" property is not
required and ignored if present.

Commit message:

reboot_controller deploy API macro

doc/iac.rst, after:

IaC and deployment
******************

EVA ICS supports infrastructure-as-code paradigm, providing a way to deploy
items and their params from deployment files in YAML format.

Live deployment examples can be found in EVA ICS demos:

* https://github.com/alttch/eva-demo-smarthome
* https://github.com/alttch/eva-demo-farm

Deployment is possible only on :doc:`SFA</sfa/sfa>` servers.

.. note::

    To allow deployment, SFA must have child controllers connected in
    management mode (connected controllers master keys should be set). Also,
    :ref:`cloud manager <install_cloud>` feature should be enabled in SFA
    configuration file.

.. contents::

Deployment configuration file
=============================

Deployment configurations are stored in YAML files, which have the following
format:

Controllers
-----------

Section *controller* contains:

* :doc:`Driver</drivers>` setup for :doc:`/uc/uc`
* Commands, executed after configuration deployment

Common variables setup
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Here's an example to set two cvar values:

.. code:: yaml

    controller:
        uc/controller1:
            cvar:
                var1: value1
                var2: value2

Driver setup
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Here is an example, which:

* Loads two PHI *vrtrelay* modules into :doc:`/uc/uc` *uc/controller1* as *vr1*
  and *vr2*. The second module has configuration option *state_full=true*.
* Creates *vr1.opener* driver using *vr1* PHI module and *multistep* LPI.

.. code:: yaml

    controller:
        uc/controller1:
            phi:
                vr1:
                    module: vrtrelay
                    # src: path/to/module
                vr2:
                    module: vrtrelay
                    config:
                        state_full: true
            driver:
                vr1.opener:
                    module: multistep
                    config:
                        bose: true

"src" field tells deployment function to get PHI module from file or URL and
upload it to the target controller.

API keys and local users
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Keys can contain any valid key properties, local user accounts MUST have both
"password" and "key" properties set.

.. code:: yaml

    controller:
      uc/controller1:
        key:
          tkey1:
            key: verysecret1
            groups:
              - plant1/#
              - plant2/#
            sysfunc: true
            allow:
              - lock
              - cmd
          tkey2:
            key: verysecret2
            groups: "#"
            allow:
              - device
        user:
          test1:
            password: "iu4i32j432s"
            key: tkey1
          test2:
            password: "u89132u2183"
            key:
              - tkey1
              - tkey2

Uploading files
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Local files can be uploaded into remote controller runtime directory:

.. code:: yaml

    controller:
        uc/controller1:
            upload-runtime:
                - localfile:remotefile
                - localfile2:path/to/remotefile2

File list: local/remote files, separated with ":". If remote directory doesn't
exist, it will be created automatically.

It's possible to use masks for local files, e.g. in the example below, contents
of "bundle" directory will be uploaded to remote node "runtime/upload",
directory structure will be duplicated as-is.

.. code:: yaml

    controller:
        uc/controller1:
            upload-runtime:
                - bundle/*:upload/

.. note::

    To upload directory contents recursively, set file mask to \*\*

It's possible to keep content in the deployment file as well. In this case, use
"file_put" API function to create the remote file:

.. code:: yaml

    controller:
      uc/controller1:
        before-deploy:
          - api: file_put
            i: upload/test.yml
            m: |
              test: true
              test2: false
              tags:
                - valid: true
                  x: 2
                - valid: true
                  x: 3

File paths:

* if the file path starts with *http:* or *https:*, it's processed as URI
* if the file path starts with "/", it's considered as absolute
* if the file path starts with "./" it's relative to the current
  directory
* otherwise, the file path is relative to the directory where the deployment
  file is located

Before/After deploy
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Remote calls
^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. note::

    EVA ICS architecture does not allow Cloud Manager to execute API calls on
    remote SFAs. Use the remote node UC or LM instance to act as the agent for
    that.

Controller API calls may be automatically executed after deployment is
complete:

.. code:: yaml

    controller:
        lm/lm1:
            before-deploy:
                - api: reset
                  i: timers/timer1
            after-deploy:
                - { api: clear, i: timers/timer1 }
                - { api: reload_controller, i: uc/uc1 }
                - { api: reload_controller, i: uc/uc2 }
                - api: custom_fn
                  _pass: true
                  param1: 123
                  param2: "x"

API calls are always executed in the specified order, one-by-one, *api:* field
contains API function to execute, others specify function parameters. The
special parameter *_pass* in the last call allows deployment to ignore failed
API call (warning will be printed).

Custom API call timeout can be defined with special parameter *_timeout*.

.. note::

    It is usually recommended to call *reload_controller* for :doc:`/lm/lm` to
    let it instantly load newly deployed items from connected UCs for EVA ICS prior to 3.3.2.

    Starting from 3.3.2, if units or sensors were deployed, all LM PLCs, listed
    in "controller" section, are reloaded automatically. If a LM PLC has no
    deployment configuration, it should be listed as an empty dict:

    .. code:: yaml

        controller:
          lm/lm1: {}

Local calls
^^^^^^^^^^^

Sometimes it's useful to call local SFA function deployment process. This can
be done with directive "cm-api" which has the same format as "api" for remote
calls:

.. code:: yaml

    controller:
        lm/lm1:
            before-deploy:
                - api: reset
                  i: timers/timer1
                # just for a test
                - cm-api: reload_controller
                  i: lm/lm1

The local calls can be also merged into "local" controller section. The section
can contain any before/after deploy commands, which are executed on local SFA:

.. code:: yaml

    controller:
      local:
        after-deploy:
          - install-pkg: test.evapkg
            o: { x: 2 }
            w: 5

The "local" section is always executed after all other controllers' sections.

Additionally, local SFA resources, allowed to be deployed:

* API keys
* user accounts

Macro functions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following functions execute API macros:

* **reboot_controller** executes "shutdown_core" method for the selected
  controller, after - waits until the controller is back online. The parameter
  "wait" regulates wait timeout (default: 30 sec). The function can be used in
  for both "api" and "cm-api".

.. _iac_pkg:

Installing packages
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A :doc:`package</packages>` can be installed during any deployment stage.

Syntax:

.. code:: yaml

    controller:
      uc/uc1:
        after-deploy:
          - install-pkg: /path/to/package.evapkg
            o: { x: 2 }
            w: 5


Additional deploy functions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

sleep
^^^^^

Delays execution of next before/after deploy commands. E.g. let's reload remote
UC and wait 5 seconds until its core is restarted:

.. code:: yaml

    controller:
      uc/uc1:
        after-deploy:
          - api: shutdown_core
          - function: sleep
            args: [ 5 ]

system
^^^^^^

Executes (local) system command:

.. code:: yaml

    controller:
      uc/uc1:
        after-deploy:
          - function: system
            args: [ 'ls' ]

Loops, conditions and variables
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Deployment files are pre-processed as `Jinja2
<https://jinja.palletsprojects.com/>`_ templates and may contain any valid
Jinja2 tags and variables.

The pre-set variable "time_ns" contains current UNIX timestamp (in
nanoseconds), which can be used e.g. as "no-cache" value for bypassing cache of
proxied external resources.

It's also possible to import any external Python module with "import_module"
function:

.. code:: jinja

    {%- set io=import_module('io') %}
    {%- set units=io.open('units.list').readlines() %}
    unit:
      {%- for u in units %}
      {{ u.strip() }}:
        controller: uc/uc1
      {%- endfor %}

Items
-----

:doc:`/items` can be deployed with *unit*, *sensor* and *lvar* sections. All
sections are similar, the format is:

.. code:: yaml

    unit:
        group1/u1:
            controller: uc/uc1
            action_enabled: true
            update_interval: 0
            status: 0 # initial status, optional
            driver:
                id: vr1.default
                config:
                    port: 1

All child fields specify item properties, except:

* Field *controller* specifies controller, where item should be deployed
* For units and sensors, *driver* field may be used to assign driver to the
  item.

.. note::

    It is not necessary to list the target controller in "controller" section,
    unless it needs to be additionally configured (e.g. load
    drivers/PHIs)

If *action_exec* or *update_exec* values are started with *^* symbol, it tells
deployment tool to upload local file on the controller.

Setting "status" field to "update" asks the controller to trigger item update
after deployment:

.. code:: yaml

    unit:
        group1/u1:
            controller: uc/uc1
            # ....
            status: update

The second example shows how to deploy a sensor and logical variable:

.. code:: yaml

    sensor:
        group1/s1:
            controller: uc/uc1
            driver:
                id: somedriver.default
                config:
                    port: 1
            value: 77 # initial value, optional, initial status for sensor
                      # is not required (automatically set to 1 - enabled)

    lvar:
        group1/timer1:
            controller: lm/lm1
            expires: 30
            status: 0 # initial status, optional
            value: 77 # initial value, optional

Macros
------

:doc:`/lm/macros` are deployed in *lmacro* section:

.. code:: yaml

    lmacro:
        group1/macro1:
            controller: lm/lm1
            action_exec: ^macro1.py

All child fields specify item properties, except:

* Field *controller* specifies :doc:`/lm/lm`, where macro should be deployed

If field *action_exec* value is started with *^* symbol, it tells deployment
tool to upload local file on the controller.

.. note::

    To make deployment process more easy, it is recommended to start it in
    directory, where macro files are located.

Logical rules
-------------

:doc:`/lm/decision_matrix` can be configured with *dmatrix_rule* section.

Rule example:

.. code:: yaml

    dmatrix-rule:
      5ef9b8fd-d527-44ce-ae89-9629afd40d76:
          controller: lm/farm-scada
          description: light normal
          enabled: true
          oid: "sensor:#/ldr.value"
          condition: x = 1
          break_after_exec: true
          macro: stop_lamp
          macro_kwargs:
            lamp_id: 1

All child fields specify item properties, except:

* Field *controller* specifies :doc:`/lm/lm`, where rule should be configured

Rule UUID should be pre-generated with any UUID generator, e.g. with *uuidgen*
Linux console command.

Scheduled jobs
--------------

Jobs can be deployed the similar way as rules:

.. code:: yaml

    job:
      e407f61c-a251-455b-92bc-9eee9adcb93b:
        controller: lm/lab-ws2
        description: "scheduled job 1"
        enabled: true
        macro: do_scheduled_task
        macro_args: [ 'task1' ]
        every: "wednesday at 12:00"

Cycles
------

.. code:: yaml

    lcycle:
      test:
        controller: lm/lab-ws2
        description: "scheduled job 1"
        interval: 1
        macro: do_cycle1
        macro_args: [ 'task1' ]

How to deploy configuration
===========================

Currently there is no API functions for deploy EVA ICS configuration. The item
configuration can be deployed either via :doc:`CLI</cli>` or during
installation.

Deployment via CLI
------------------

Deploying
~~~~~~~~~

Deployment configuration can be applied using  *eva sfa cloud deploy* command.
When deployed with :doc:`CLI</cli>`, deployment file may contain variables.

Example:

.. code:: yaml

    unit:
        light/room1:
            controller: uc/{{ srv }}

Here is *srv* variable defined. To set its value, e.g. to "uc1", use *-c
srv=uc1* command line argument. If multiple variable values are set, they
should be comma separated, e.g.: *-c srv1=uc1,srv2=uc2* etc.

There's also command line argument *-u* which tells CLI to try undeploying
target configuration before doing deployment of it. Undeployment process
ignores missing items and deletes only existing.

Undeploying
~~~~~~~~~~~

Deployment configuration can be removed with *eva sfa cloud undeploy* command.
Custom variable values can be set in the same way as during deployment.

Deployment during installation
------------------------------

Configuration also can be deployed with *easy-setup* during
:doc:`SFA</sfa/sfa>` :doc:`installation</install>`. Use *--deploy FILE* command
line argument to specify path to the deployment file.

Complex deployments
-------------------

Bare-metal
~~~~~~~~~~

Sometimes deployment is more complex than just creating items. In this case
deployment scripts are used to prepare environment, call *eva sfa cloud deploy*
command and finish deployment.

Containers
~~~~~~~~~~

There is no problems when the regular bare-metal or virtual machine
installation is performed, but if EVA ICS is being installed into Docker
machine or Kubernetes cluster, there is a special environment variable
*after_install*, which tells `EVA ICS Docker
image <https://hub.docker.com/r/altertech/eva-ics>`_ to execute deployment
script after installation process is finished. Here's an example part of
docker-compose file:

.. code:: yaml

    eva-scada:
        environment:
            - after_install=/deploy/deploy.sh

Devices
-------

Starting from EVA ICS 3.3.2, :ref:`device<device>` template format is equal to
IaC files.

For cvar deployment, a proper "controller" property should be present in the
device template. In "unit" and "sensor" sections, "controller" property is not
required and ignored if present.
